# 42SP_Webserver
42 SP | Web Server Project

## How to Contribute

To contribute to this project, follow the steps below:

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/gxsilva/42SP_Webserver
    ```

2. **Enter the project directory**:
    ```bash
    cd 42SP_Webserver
    ```

3. **Make the setup script executable**:
    ```bash
    chmod +x ./scripts/setup.sh
    ```

4. **Run the setup script**:
    ```bash
    ./scripts/setup.sh
    ```

After that, you can start working on the project.  
Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests to suggest improvements or report problems.


## Makefile Commands

The project provides several useful Makefile targets:

- `all`  
  Builds the project.

- `clean`  
  Removes object files and other temporary files generated during compilation.

- `fclean`  
  Performs a full cleanup, removing all build artifacts, including the executable.

- `re`  
  Equivalent to running `fclean` followed by `all`, forcing a full rebuild.


### Development Utilities

These targets help with development, code quality, and tooling:

- `check-tools`  
  Verifies whether all required tools for development (such as compilers and analyzers) are installed on the system.

- `format`  
  Runs `clang-format` using the `.clang-format` configuration file to format all `.cpp` and `.hpp` files in the codebase.

- `compile_commands_json`  
  Uses `bear` to generate a JSON compilation database (`compile_commands.json`), which is used by `clang-tidy` and other analysis tools.

- `tidy`  
  Runs `clang-tidy` using the generated `compile_commands.json` and the `.clang-tidy` configuration file to analyze the codebase, check code quality, and detect potential bugs.

- `clean_logs`
    Remove all log files generated by `Logger`, both those located in the `project root` and those located in `/log`.

  ### Stack & Tooling

  - **Language:** C++98  
  - **Formatter:** `clang-format` (LLVM style)  
  - **CI:** pre-commit hooks (in progress)  
  - **Automation:** Shell (Bash) and Makefile  
  - **Code Quality:** `clang-tidy` (LLVM) with `bear` (in progress)
